5L - Multimedia authoring and playback system
Copyright 1993-2002 Trustees of Dartmouth College

The different coponents of 5L are distributed under a variety of licenses.
For your convenience, the 5L distribution also includes a number of
third-party libraries with copyrights and licenses of their own.

5L is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more
details.

Here is a summary of licenses used in the 5L distribution:

  1) The 5L Scheme runtime code (in Common/Runtime/5L) is distributed under
     the GNU Lesser General Public License, either version 2.1 of the
     License, or (at your option) any later version.

  2) All other code copyright by the Trustees of Dartmouth College is
     distributed under the GNU General Public License, either version 2 of
     the License, or (at your option) any later version.

  3) All code which is not copyright by the Trustees of Dartmouth College
     is covered by the license specified by the copyright holder.  Many of
     these licenses have been reproduced below for your convenience.  The
     official copies of these licenses can be found elsewhere in the
     distribution.

*===== DibLib License

(C) Copyright 1994 Microsoft Corp.  All rights reserved.

You have a royalty-free right to use, modify, reproduce and distribute the
Sample Files (and/or any modified version) in any way you find useful,
provided that you agree that Microsoft has no warranty obligations or
liability for any Sample Application Files which are modified.

*===== CGWorld License

[NOTE: Unknown author, unknown licensing terms, and it doesn't match the
coding style of any of our in-house developers.  We'll probably need to
rewrite this.]

*===== gamma.{h,cpp} License

Written:	12/17/92, Matt Slot, fprefect@engin.umich.edu
Updated:	11/09/93, MJS

Oh yeah, this stuff is free to anyone interested in it.

[NOTE: We use this to do gamma fades, and it's too low-level to rewrite
easily.  I don't like this license; it's fairly vague.  The author appears
to be at http://janus.ambrosiasw.com/~fprefect/ these days.  We should
probably replace this with Drew Thaler's ColorGamma library, which Matt
Slot says supercedes his work, and which is in the public domain.]

*===== LTask, LTimerTask, UDeleteTaskQueue License

Copyright 1995, Eric Forget. All rights reserved.

Before using this code you should read the "License Agreement" document and
agree with it.

[NOTE: We have no copy of the "License Agreement".  There is an Eric Forget
who appears to know something about Mac programming at
http://www3.sympatico.ca/eric.forget/, eric.forget@sympatico.ca and
eforget@Clemex.com who might be the original developer.  This code should
be relatively easy to rewrite if necessary.]

*===== MoreFiles License

[NOTE: The code in our source *appears* to come from MoreFiles, but lacks a
license.  The current version of MoreFiles can be found at
http://developer.apple.com/samplecode/Sample_Code/Files/MoreFiles.htm.  The
following license is for the current version.  We should the version in our
tree with the current version to be safe.]

Disclaimer: IMPORTANT: This Apple software is supplied to you by Apple
Computer, Inc.  ("Apple") in consideration of your agreement to the
following terms, and your use, installation, modification or redistribution
of this Apple software constitutes acceptance of these terms.  If you do
not agree with these terms, please do not use, install, modify or
redistribute this Apple software.

In consideration of your agreement to abide by the following terms, and
subject to these terms, Apple grants you a personal, non-exclusive license,
under Apple's copyrights in this original Apple software (the "Apple
Software"), to use, reproduce, modify and redistribute the Apple Software,
with or without modifications, in source and/or binary forms; provided that
if you redistribute the Apple Software in its entirety and without
modifications, you must retain this notice and the following text and
disclaimers in all such redistributions of the Apple Software.  Neither the
name, trademarks, service marks or logos of Apple Computer, Inc. may be
used to endorse or promote products derived from the Apple Software without
specific prior written permission from Apple.  Except as expressly stated
in this notice, no other rights or licenses, express or implied, are
granted by Apple herein, including but not limited to any patent rights
that may be infringed by your derivative works or by other works in which
the Apple Software may be incorporated.

The Apple Software is provided by Apple on an "AS IS" basis.  APPLE MAKES
NO WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, REGARDING THE APPLE SOFTWARE OR ITS USE AND OPERATION
ALONE OR IN COMBINATION WITH YOUR PRODUCTS.

IN NO EVENT SHALL APPLE BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE, REPRODUCTION, MODIFICATION
AND/OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE APPLE SOFTWARE, HOWEVER CAUSED AND WHETHER UNDER
THEORY OF CONTRACT, TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), STRICT LIABILITY OR
OTHERWISE, EVEN IF APPLE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

*===== Aladdin MD5 License

  Copyright (C) 1999, 2002 Aladdin Enterprises.  All rights reserved.

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

  L. Peter Deutsch
  ghost@aladdin.com

*===== The Blowfish License

[NOTE: This code is export-controlled by the US government, and should be
removed from our source tree.]

blowfish.c : Source code for the Blowfish block cipher

Part of the Python Cryptography Toolkit, version 1.0.0

Copyright (C) 1995, A.M. Kuchling

Distribute and use freely; there are no restrictions on further
dissemination and usage except those imposed by the laws of your 
country of residence.

*===== Boost License Requirements

[NOTE: We really should check all the Boost licenses individually.  But the
official license requirements for Boost appear to match the Debian Free
Software Guidelines.]

  * Must be simple to read and understand.
  * Must grant permission to copy, use and modify the software for any use
    (commercial and non-commercial) for no fee.
  * Must require that the license appear on all copies of the software
    source code.
  * Must not require that the license appear with executables or other
    binary uses of the library.
  * Must not require that the source code be available for execution or
    other binary uses of the library.
  * May restrict the use of the name and description of the library to the
    standard version found on the Boost web site.

*===== The FreeType Project License

[NOTE: Some parts of FreeType are distributed under other licenses,
including the GPL.  We should check these manually.]

                    The FreeType Project LICENSE
                    ----------------------------

                            2000-Feb-08

                       Copyright 1996-2000 by
          David Turner, Robert Wilhelm, and Werner Lemberg



Introduction
============

  The FreeType  Project is distributed in  several archive packages;
  some of them may contain, in addition to the FreeType font engine,
  various tools and  contributions which rely on, or  relate to, the
  FreeType Project.

  This  license applies  to all  files found  in such  packages, and
  which do not  fall under their own explicit  license.  The license
  affects  thus  the  FreeType   font  engine,  the  test  programs,
  documentation and makefiles, at the very least.

  This  license   was  inspired  by  the  BSD,   Artistic,  and  IJG
  (Independent JPEG  Group) licenses, which  all encourage inclusion
  and  use of  free  software in  commercial  and freeware  products
  alike.  As a consequence, its main points are that:

    o We don't promise that this software works. However, we will be
      interested in any kind of bug reports. (`as is' distribution)

    o You can  use this software for whatever you  want, in parts or
      full form, without having to pay us. (`royalty-free' usage)

    o You may not pretend that  you wrote this software.  If you use
      it, or  only parts of it,  in a program,  you must acknowledge
      somewhere  in  your  documentation  that  you  have  used  the
      FreeType code. (`credits')

  We  specifically  permit  and  encourage  the  inclusion  of  this
  software, with  or without modifications,  in commercial products.
  We  disclaim  all warranties  covering  The  FreeType Project  and
  assume no liability related to The FreeType Project.


Legal Terms
===========

0. Definitions
--------------

  Throughout this license,  the terms `package', `FreeType Project',
  and  `FreeType  archive' refer  to  the  set  of files  originally
  distributed  by the  authors  (David Turner,  Robert Wilhelm,  and
  Werner Lemberg) as the `FreeType Project', be they named as alpha,
  beta or final release.

  `You' refers to  the licensee, or person using  the project, where
  `using' is a generic term including compiling the project's source
  code as  well as linking it  to form a  `program' or `executable'.
  This  program is  referred to  as  `a program  using the  FreeType
  engine'.

  This  license applies  to all  files distributed  in  the original
  FreeType  Project,   including  all  source   code,  binaries  and
  documentation,  unless  otherwise  stated   in  the  file  in  its
  original, unmodified form as  distributed in the original archive.
  If you are  unsure whether or not a particular  file is covered by
  this license, you must contact us to verify this.

  The FreeType  Project is copyright (C) 1996-2000  by David Turner,
  Robert Wilhelm, and Werner Lemberg.  All rights reserved except as
  specified below.

1. No Warranty
--------------

  THE FREETYPE PROJECT  IS PROVIDED `AS IS' WITHOUT  WARRANTY OF ANY
  KIND, EITHER  EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,  INCLUDING, BUT NOT  LIMITED TO,
  WARRANTIES  OF  MERCHANTABILITY   AND  FITNESS  FOR  A  PARTICULAR
  PURPOSE.  IN NO EVENT WILL ANY OF THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
  BE LIABLE  FOR ANY DAMAGES CAUSED  BY THE USE OR  THE INABILITY TO
  USE, OF THE FREETYPE PROJECT.

2. Redistribution
-----------------

  This  license  grants  a  worldwide, royalty-free,  perpetual  and
  irrevocable right  and license to use,  execute, perform, compile,
  display,  copy,   create  derivative  works   of,  distribute  and
  sublicense the  FreeType Project (in  both source and  object code
  forms)  and  derivative works  thereof  for  any  purpose; and  to
  authorize others  to exercise  some or all  of the  rights granted
  herein, subject to the following conditions:

    o Redistribution of  source code  must retain this  license file
      (`FTL.TXT') unaltered; any  additions, deletions or changes to
      the original  files must be clearly  indicated in accompanying
      documentation.   The  copyright   notices  of  the  unaltered,
      original  files must  be  preserved in  all  copies of  source
      files.

    o Redistribution in binary form must provide a  disclaimer  that
      states  that  the software is based in part of the work of the
      FreeType Team,  in  the  distribution  documentation.  We also
      encourage you to put an URL to the FreeType web page  in  your
      documentation, though this isn't mandatory.

  These conditions  apply to any  software derived from or  based on
  the FreeType Project,  not just the unmodified files.   If you use
  our work, you  must acknowledge us.  However, no  fee need be paid
  to us.

3. Advertising
--------------

  Neither the  FreeType authors and  contributors nor you  shall use
  the name of the  other for commercial, advertising, or promotional
  purposes without specific prior written permission.

  We suggest,  but do not require, that  you use one or  more of the
  following phrases to refer  to this software in your documentation
  or advertising  materials: `FreeType Project',  `FreeType Engine',
  `FreeType library', or `FreeType Distribution'.

  As  you have  not signed  this license,  you are  not  required to
  accept  it.   However,  as  the FreeType  Project  is  copyrighted
  material, only  this license, or  another one contracted  with the
  authors, grants you  the right to use, distribute,  and modify it.
  Therefore,  by  using,  distributing,  or modifying  the  FreeType
  Project, you indicate that you understand and accept all the terms
  of this license.

4. Contacts
-----------

  There are two mailing lists related to FreeType:

    o freetype@freetype.org

      Discusses general use and applications of FreeType, as well as
      future and  wanted additions to the  library and distribution.
      If  you are looking  for support,  start in  this list  if you
      haven't found anything to help you in the documentation.

    o devel@freetype.org

      Discusses bugs,  as well  as engine internals,  design issues,
      specific licenses, porting, etc.

    o http://www.freetype.org

      Holds the current  FreeType web page, which will  allow you to
      download  our  latest  development  version  and  read  online
      documentation.

  You can also contact us individually at:

    David Turner      <david.turner@freetype.org>
    Robert Wilhelm    <robert.wilhelm@freetype.org>
    Werner Lemberg    <werner.lemberg@freetype.org>
